You wrote somewhere that creating
powerful AI might be the last invention
humanity ever needs to make. How much
time do we have, Ben?
>> I think 50th percentile chance of
hitting some kind of super intelligence
is now like 2028.
>> What is it that you saw at OpenAI? What
did you experience there that made you
feel like, okay, we got to go do our own
thing?
>> We felt like safety wasn't the top
priority there. The case for safety has
gotten a lot more concrete. So, super
intelligence is a lot about like how do
we keep God in a box and not let the god
out? What are the odds that we align AI
correctly?
>> Once we get to super intelligence, it
will be too late to align the models. My
best granularity forecast for like could
we have an X- risk or extremely bad
outcome is somewhere between 0 and 10%.
>> Something that's in the news right now
is this whole Zuck coming after all the
top AI researchers. We've been much less
affected because people here they get
these offers and then they say, "Well,
of course I'm not going to leave because
my best case scenario at Meta is that we
make money and my best case scenario at
Enthropic is we like affect the future
of humanity."
>> Daario, your CEO, recently talked about
how unemployment might go up to
something like 20%.
>> If you just think about like 20 years in
the future where we're like way past the
singularity, it's hard for me to imagine
that even capitalism will look at all
like it looks today. Do you have any
advice for folks that want to try to get
ahead of this?
>> I'm not immune to job replacement
either. At some point, it's coming for
all of us.
>> Today, my guest is Benjamin Man. Holy
moly, what a conversation. Ben is the
co-founder of Anthropic. He serves as
tech lead for product engineering. He
focuses most of his time and energy on
aligning AI to be helpful, harmless, and
honest. Prior to Anthropic, he was one
of the architects of GPT3 at Open AI. In
our conversation, we cover a lot of
ground, including his thoughts on the
recruiting battle for top AI
researchers, why he left Open AI to
start Anthropic, how soon he expects
we'll see AGI, also his economic touring
test for knowing when we've hit AGI, why
scaling laws have not slowed down and
are in fact accelerating, and what the
current biggest bottlenecks are, why
he's so deeply concerned with AI safety,
and how he and anthropic operationalize
safety and alignment into the models
that they build and into their ways of
working. Also, how the existential risk
from AI has impacted his own
perspectives on the world and his own
life, and what he's encouraging his kids
to learn to succeed in an AI future. A
huge thank you to Steve Nich, Danielle
Giglieri, Raph Lee, and my newsletter
community for suggesting topics for this
conversation. If you enjoy this podcast,
don't forget to subscribe and follow it
in your favorite podcasting app or
YouTube. Also, if you become an annual
subscriber of my newsletter, you get a
year free of a bunch of amazing
products, including Bolt, Linear,
Superhum, Notion, Granola, and more.
Check it out at lenniesnewsletter.com
and click bundle. With that, I bring you
Benjamin Man. This episode is brought to
you by Sauce. The way teams turn
feedback into product impact is stuck in
the past. Vague reports, static
taxonomies, unactionable insights that
don't move business metrics. The result,
churn, lost deals, miss growth. Sauce is
the AI product co-pilot that helps CPOS
and product teams uncover business
impact and act faster. It listens to
your sales calls, support tickets, churn
reasons, and lost deal, surfacing the
biggest product issues and opportunities
in real time. It then routes them to the
right teams to turn signals into PRDs,
prototypes, and even code that drives
revenue, retention, and adoption. That's
why whatnot, Linkree, Incident.io, and
Zip use Sauce. One enterprise uncovered
a product gap that unlocked $16 million
ARR. Another caught a spiking issue and
prevented millions in churn. You can too
at s.app/lenny.
Sauce built for AI product teams. Don't
get left behind. This episode is brought
to you by Lucid Link, the storage
collaboration platform. You've built a
great product, but how you show it
through video design and storytelling is
what brings it to life. If your team
works with large media files, videos,
design assets, layered project files.
You know how painful it can be to stay
organized across locations. Files live
in different places. You're constantly
asking, "Is this the latest version?"
Creative Work slows down while people
wait for files to transfer. Lucid Link
fixes this. It gives your team a shared
space in the cloud that works like a
local drive. Files are instantly
accessible from anywhere. No
downloading, no syncing, and always up
todate. That means producers, editors,
designers, and marketers can open
massive files in their native apps, work
directly from the cloud, and stay
aligned wherever they are. Teams at
Adobe, Shopify, and top creative
agencies use LucidLink to keep their
content engine running fast and smooth.
Try it for free at lucidlink.com/lenny.
That's lucidl.com/lenny.
Ben, thank you so much for being here.
Welcome to the podcast. Thanks for
having me. Great to be here. Lenny,
>> I have uh a billion N1 questions for
you. I'm really excited to be chatting.
I want to start with something that's
very timely, something that's happening
this week. Uh something that's in the
news right now is is this whole uh Zuck
coming after all the top AI researchers,
offering them $100 million signing
bonuses, $und00 million comp. He's
poaching from all the top AI labs. I
imagine this something you're dealing
with. I'm just curious what are you
seeing inside Anthropic and just what's
your take on the strategy? Where do you
think where do you think things go from
here?
>> Yeah. Uh I mean I think this is a sign
of the times like this the technology
that we're developing is extremely
valuable. Um our company is growing
super super fast. uh many of the other
companies in the space are growing
really fast and at Anthropic I think
we've been maybe much less affected than
many of the other companies in the space
because people here are so
missionoriented and they stay because
you know they get these offers and then
they say well of course I'm not going to
leave because my best case scenario at
Meta is that we make money and my best
case scenario at Enthropic is we like
affect the future of humanity and um try
to make AI flourish uh and and human
flourishing go well. So to me it's it's
not a hard choice. Other people have
different life circumstances and it it
makes it a much harder decision for
them. So for anybody who does get those
mega offers and accepts them, I can't
say I I hold it against them when they
accept it, but it's definitely not
something that I would want to take
myself if it if it came to me.
>> Yeah, we're going to talk about a lot of
the stuff that you mentioned. Uh, in
terms of the offers, do you think is
this a real number that you're seeing?
This hund00 million of signing bonus is
that like a real thing? I don't know if
you haven't if you actually seen that.
>> I'm pretty sure it's real. Uh,
>> wow. If if you just think about like the
amount of impact that individuals can
have on a company's trajectory like in
our case uh we are selling like hotcakes
and if we get you know a five a one or
10 or 5% efficiency bonus on our
inference stack that is worth an
incredible amount of money and so to pay
individuals
you know like $und00 million over
fouryear package that's actually pretty
cheap compared to the value created for
the business. So I think we're just in
an unprecedented era of scale and it's
only going to get crazier actually
like if you if you extrapolate the
exponential on how much companies are
spending it's like two 2x a year roughly
in terms of capex and today we're maybe
in the like globally $300 billion range
the the entire industry spending on
this. Uh, and so numbers like 100
million are a drop in the bucket. But if
you go a few years out, a couple more
doublings, we're talking about trillions
of dollars. And at that point, it's it's
just really hard to think about these
numbers. Along these lines, something
that a lot of people feel with AI
progress is that we're hitting plateaus
in many ways that it feels like newer
models are just not as smart as previous
leaps. But I know you don't believe
this. I know you don't believe that
we've hit uh plateaus on scaling loss.
talk about just what you're seeing there
and what you think people are missing.
>> It's kind of funny because this
narrative comes out like every 6 months
or so and it's never been true. Uh and
so I kind of wish people would have like
a little bit of a detector in
their heads when they see this. I think
progress has actually been accelerating
where if you look at the cadence of
model releases, it used to be like once
a year and now with the improvements in
our post- training techniques, we're
seeing releases every month or 3 months.
Um, and so I would say progress is
actually accelerating in many ways, but
there's this like weird time compression
effect. Dario compared it to being in a
near light speed journey where uh a day
that passes for you is like 5 days back
on Earth and we're accelerating. So the
time dilation is increasing. And I think
that's part of what's causing people to
say that progress is slowing down. But
if yeah, if you look at the scaling
laws, they're continuing to hold true.
we did kind of need this transition from
uh like normal pre-training to
reinforcement learning scaling up to to
continue the scaling laws. But I I think
it's kind of like uh for semiconductors
where it's less about the like density
of transistors that you can fit on a
chip and more about like how many flops
can you fit in a data center or
something. So it you have to change the
definition around a little bit to to
like keep your eye on the prize. But
yeah, I like this is one of the few
phenomena in in the world that has held
across so many orders of magnitude. It's
actually pretty surprising that it it is
continuing to hold. To me, if you look
at like fundamental laws of physics,
many of them don't hold across 15 orders
of magnitude. So, um it's pretty
surprising. It boggles the mind. So,
what you're saying essentially is we're
seeing newer models being released more
often and so we're comparing it to the
last version and we're just not seeing
as much advance. But if you go back and
it was like a model released once a
year, it was a huge leap. And so people
are missing that we're just seeing many
more iterations.
>> I guess to be a little bit more generous
to the people saying things are slowing
down, I think that for some tasks we are
saturating the amount of intelligence
needed for that task. like maybe to, you
know, extract information from a simple
document that already has form fields on
it or something like it's just so easy
that okay, yeah, we're already at 100%.
Um, and there's this great chart on our
world in data that shows that when you
release a new benchmark within like 6 to
12 months, it immediately gets
saturated. And so maybe the real
constraint is like how can we come up
with better benchmarks and better uh
ambition of using the tools that then
reveals the bumps in intelligence that
we're seeing now.
>> That's a good uh segue to your you have
a very specific way of thinking about
AGI and defining what AGI means.
>> I think AGI is kind of a loaded term and
so uh I tend not to use it very much
anymore internally. Instead, I like the
term transformative AI because it's less
about like can it do as much as people
do? Can it do literally everything? And
more about objectively, is it causing
transformation in society and the
economy? And a very concrete way of
measuring that is the economic turning
test. I didn't come up with this, but I
really like it. It's this idea that if
you contract an agent for a month or
three months on a particular job, if you
decide to hire that agent and it turns
out to be a machine rather than a
person, then it's passed the economic
turning test for that role. And then you
can sort of expand that out in the same
way that for measuring like purchasing
power parody or inflation, there's a
basket of goods. You can have like a
market basket of jobs. And if the agent
can pass economic turning tests for like
50% of money weighted jobs, then we have
transformative AI. And the the exact
thresholds don't really matter that
much, but it's kind of illustrative to
say like if we pass that threshold, then
we would expect massive effects on world
GDP increases and uh societal change and
how many people are employed and things
like that because you know societal
institutions and uh organizations are
sticky. It it's slow to have change. But
once these things are possible, you know
that it's the start of a new era. So
along these lines, uh Daario, your CEO,
recently talked about how uh AI is going
to take a huge part of like I don't know
half of whitellar jobs that unemployment
might go up to something like 20%. I
know you're even more vocal and opinion
about just how much impact AI is already
having in the workplace that people may
not even be realizing. Talk about just
what you think people are missing about
the impact AI is going to have on jobs
and is already having. Yeah. So, from an
economic standpoint, there's a couple
different kinds of unemployment. And one
is because the workers just don't have
the skills to do the the kinds of jobs
that the economy needs. And another kind
is where those jobs are just completely
eliminated. And I think it's uh going to
be actually a combination of these
things. But if you just think about
like, you know, 20 years in the future
where we're like way past the
singularity, it's hard for me to imagine
that even capitalism will look at all
like it looks today. Like if we if we do
our jobs right, we will have safe
aligned super intelligence. We'll have,
as Dario says in Machines of Loving
Grace, a country of geniuses in a data
center. and the ability to accelerate
positive change in in science,
technology, uh, education, mathematics,
like it's going to be amazing.
But that also means in a world of
abundance where labor is almost free and
anything you want to do, you can just
ask an expert to do it for you, uh, then
what do jobs even look like? And so I
guess there's this like scary transition
period from where we are today where
people have jobs and capitalism works
and the world of 20 years from now where
everything is completely different. But
part of the reason they call it the
singularity is that it's like a point
beyond which you can't easily forecast
what's going to happen. It's just such a
a fast rate of change and so different
that it's hard to even imagine. So I
guess taking the like view from the
limit it's pretty easy to say like
hopefully we'll have figured it out and
in a world of abundance maybe the jobs
themselves it's not that scary and I
think making sure that that transition
time goes well is is pretty important.
There's a couple of threads I want to
follow there. One is uh people hear this
there's a lot of headlines around this.
Most people probably don't actually feel
this yet or see this happening. And so
there's always this like, I guess, I
don't know, maybe, but I don't know.
It's hard to believe. My job seems fine.
Nothing's changed. What are you seeing
just happening today already that you
think people don't see or misunderstand
in terms of the impact AI is having on
jobs? I think part of this is that
people are really bad at modeling
exponential progress. And if you look at
an exponential on a graph, it looks flat
and almost zero at the beginning of it
and then suddenly you like hit the knee
of the curve and things are changing
real fast and then it goes vertical. And
that's the plot that we've been on for a
long time. Uh I guess I I started
feeling it um in maybe like 2019 when
GBT2 came out and I was like, "Oh, this
is how we're going to get to AGI." But I
think that was pretty early compared to
a lot of people where when they saw
Chachup PT they were like wow something
is different and changing and so I guess
I wouldn't expect widespread
transformation in a lot of parts of the
of society and I would expect this this
like skepticism reaction. I think it's
very reasonable and it's it's like
exactly what is like the standard linear
view of progress. But I guess to cite a
couple of areas where I think things are
changing quite quickly in customer
service, we're seeing with things like
Finn and Intercom, they're a great
partner of ours 82% customer service
resolution rates automatically without a
human involved. Uh and in terms of
software engineering, our cloud code
team like 95% of the code is written by
cloud. But I think a different way to
phrase that is that we write 10x more
code or 20x more code. And so a much
much smaller team can just be much much
more impactful. And similarly for the
customer service, yes, you can phrase it
as 82% customer service resolution
rates, but that nets out in the humans
doing those tasks able to focus on the
harder parts of those tasks. uh and for
the more tricky situations that in a
normal world, you know, like five years
ago, they would have had to just drop
those tickets because it was too much
effort for them to actually go do the
investigation. There were too many other
tickets for them to worry about. So, I
think in the immediate term, there will
be a massive expansion of the pie and
the amount of labor that people can do.
uh like I've never met an a hiring
manager at a growth company and heard
them say like I don't want to hire more
people. So that's like the hopeful
version of it. But with things that are
like lower skill jobs or like less
headroom on on how good they can be, I
think there will be a lot of
displacement. So it's it's just
something we as a society need to get
ahead of and work on. Okay, I want to
talk more about that, but something that
um I also want to help people with is
how do they how do they get a leg up in
this future world? You know, there's,
you know, they listen to this, they're
like, "Oh, h this doesn't sound great. I
need to think ahead." Uh I know you
won't have all the answers, but just
what do you you have any advice for
folks that want to try to get ahead of
this and kind of future proof their
career and their life to not be replaced
by AI? Anything you've seen people do?
anything you recommend they start trying
to do more of?
>> Even for me, I'm and being like in the
center of a lot of this transformation,
I'm not immune to job replacement
either. So, uh just some vulnerability
there of like at some point it's coming
for all of us.
>> Even you, Ben, now.
>> Um and and you Lenny
>> and me.
>> Sorry.
>> Wait, we've gone too far now.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> But in terms of like the transition
period, yeah, I think I think there are
things that we can do. And I think a big
part of it is just being ambitious in
how you use the tools and being willing
to learn new tools. People who use the
new tools as if they were old tools tend
to not succeed. Uh so as an example of
that when you're coding, you know,
people are very familiar with
autocomplete. People are familiar with
uh simple chat where they can ask
questions about the codebase. But the
difference between people who use cloud
code very effectively and people who use
it not so effectively is like are they
asking for the ambitious change? And if
it doesn't work the first time, asking
three more times because our success
rate when you just completely start over
and try again is much much higher than
if you just try once and then just keep
banging on the same thing that didn't
work.
And even though that's a coding example
and coding is one of the areas that's
taking off most dramatically,
we have seen internally that our legal
team and our finance team are getting a
ton of value out of using cloud code
itself. We're going to be making better
interfaces so that they can they they'll
have an easier time and and require a
little bit less uh jumping in the deep
end of of using cloud code in the
terminal. But yeah, we're seeing them uh
use it to redline documents and use it
to run BigQuery analyses of our
customers and uh and our our revenue
metrics. So I guess it's it's about
taking that risk and even if it feels
like a scary thing trying it out.
>> Okay. So the advice here is use the
tools. That's something you know
everyone's always saying just like
actually use these tools. So it's like
sit in claw code and uh your point about
be more ambitious than you naturally uh
feel like being because maybe it'll
actually accomplish the thing. This tip
of trying it three times. So the idea
there is it may not get it right the
first time. So is the tip there ask it
in different ways or is it just like try
harder, try again?
>> Yeah, I mean you can just literally ask
the exact same question. These things
are stochcastic and sometimes they'll
figure it out and sometimes they won't.
like in in every one of these model
cards, it always shows like pass it one
versus pass it n and that's exactly this
thing where they they try the exact same
prompt. Sometimes it gets it, sometimes
doesn't. Um, so that's uh that's the
dumbest advice. But yeah, I think if you
want to be a little bit smarter about
it, there's there can be gains there of
of saying like here's what you already
tried and it didn't work, so don't try
that. Try something different. Um, that
can also help. So advice is comes back
to something that a lot of people talk
about these days is you won't be
replaced for by AI at least anytime soon
you'll be replaced by someone that is
very good using AI. I think in that area
it's more like your team will just do
dramatically more stuff.
Like we're definitely not slowing down
on hiring at all and some people are
confused by that. Even like even in an
onboarding class uh somebody asked that
and they were like why did you hire me
if we're all just going to be replaced?
And the answer is the next couple of
years are really critical to get right
and we're not at the point where we're
doing complete replacement. Like I said,
we're still at that like flat zero
looking part of the exponential compared
to where we will be. So it is super
important to have great people uh and
and that's why we're hiring super
aggressively.
>> Let me take another approach to asking
this question. Something I ask everyone
that's at the very cutting edge of where
AI is going. You have kids. Knowing what
you know about where AI is heading and
all these things you've been talking
about, what are you focusing on teaching
your kids to help them thrive in this AI
future?
>> Yeah, I have two daughters, a
one-year-old and a three-year-old. So,
it's uh it's it's pretty in the basics
still. And our three-year-old is now
capable of just conversing with Alexa
Plus and asking her to explain stuff and
play music for her and and all that
stuff. So, she's been loving that. But I
guess more broadly, she goes to a
Montasauri school and I just love the
focus on curiosity and creativity and
and like self-led learning that
Montasauri has. I guess if I were uh in
a normal era like 10 20 years ago and I
had a kid, maybe I would be like trying
to line her up for going to a top tier
school and doing all the
extracurriculars and all that stuff. But
at this point, I don't think any of it's
going to matter. I just want her to be
happy and
thoughtful and curious and kind and uh
and the Montasauri school is definitely
doing great at that. They they text us
throughout the day. Sometimes they're
like, "Oh, your kid got in in an
argument with this other kid and she has
really big emotions and she like tried
to use her words that that I I love
that. I think that's that's exactly the
kind of education that I think is most
important that the facts are going to
fade into the background."
>> I'm I'm a huge fan of Monastery. Also,
I'm trying to get our kid into a
monastery school. until he's 2 years
old. So, uh we're on the same track.
This idea of curiosity, it comes up
every single time I ask someone that's
working at the cutting edge of AI is
what skill to instill in your child. And
curiosity comes up the most. So, I think
that's a really interesting takeaway. I
think this point about being kind is
also really important. Uh especially
with our AI overlords, uh trying to be
kind to them. I love how people are
always saying thank you to to Claude and
uh so and then creativity. That's
interesting. That doesn't come up as
much. Just being creative.
Okay, I want to go in a different
direction. I want to go back to the
beginning of Anthropic. So, famously you
and and eight of you left OpenAI back in
the day in 2020, I believe the end of
2020 to start Anthropic. You've talked a
little bit about why this happened, what
you guys saw. I'm curious just if you're
willing to share more just what is it
that you saw at OpenAI? What did you
experience there that made you feel like
okay we got to go do our own thing?
>> Yeah. So um for the listeners I was uh
part of the GBD3 project at OpenAI.
Ended up being one of the first authors
on the paper and uh I also did a bunch
of demos for Microsoft to help raise a
billion dollars from them. Did the tech
transfer of GBD3 to to their systems so
that they could help serve the model in
Azure. So, I did a bunch of different
things there uh on both the more
researchy side and the product side.
One weird thing about OpenAI is that
while I was there, Sam talked about
having three tribes that needed to be
kept in check with each other, which was
the safety tribe, the research tribe,
and the startup tribe. And whenever I
heard that, it just struck me as the
wrong way to approach things because the
company's mission apparently is to make
the transition to AGI safe and
beneficial for humanity. And that's
basically the same as Anthropic's
mission. But internally, it felt like
there was so much tension around these
things. And I think when push came to
shove, we felt like safety wasn't the
top priority there. And there are good
reasons that you might think that. Like
if you thought safety was going to be
easy to solve or if you thought it
wasn't going to have a big impact or if
you thought that the chance of big
negative outcomes was vanishingly small
then maybe you would just do those kinds
of actions. But at Anthropic we felt I
mean we didn't exist then but it was
basically the leads of all safety teams
at OpenAI. We felt that safety is really
important especially on the margin. And
so if you look at like who in the world
is actually working on safety problems,
it's a pretty small set of people even
now. I mean the the industry is blowing
up as I mentioned like 300 billion a
year capex today and
then I would say like maybe less than a
thousand people working on it worldwide
which is just crazy. So that was
fundamentally why we left. We felt like
we wanted an organization where we could
be on the frontier. We could be doing
the fundamental research, but we could
be prioritizing safety ahead of
everything else. U and I think that's
really panned out for us in a surprising
way. Like we didn't know even if it
would be possible to make progress on
the safety research. uh because at the
time like we had tried a bunch of safety
through debate and the models weren't
good enough and so we basically had null
results on all of that work and now that
exact technique is working and and many
others that we have been thinking about
for a long time. So yeah, fundamentally
it comes down to is safety the number
one priority and then something that
we've sort of tacked on since then is
like can you have safety and be at the
frontier at the same time and if you
look at something like sycopency I think
claude is one of the least sophantic
models because we've put so much effort
into actual alignment and not just
trying to like goodheart our metrics uh
of saying like user engagement is number
one and if people say yes then it's good
for them.
>> Okay. So let's talk about this tension
that you mentioned this tension between
safety and progress being competitive in
the marketplace. I know you spent a lot
of your time about on safety. I know
that's as you as you just alluded to
this is a core part of how you think
about AI. Um and I want to talk about
why that is. But first of all just how
do you how do you do how do you think
about this tension between focusing on
safety while also not falling way
behind?
>> Yeah. So initially we thought that it
would be uh sort of one or the other but
I think since then we've realized that
it's actually kind of convex in the
sense that like working on one helps us
with the other thing. So initially uh
like when Opus 3 came out and we we were
finally at the frontier of model
capabilities one of the things that
people really loved about it was the
character and the personality and that
was directly a result of our alignment
research. Um, Amanda Ascll did a ton of
work on this and as well as many others
uh who tried to figure out like what
does it mean for an agent to be helpful,
honest, and harmless? And what does it
mean to be in difficult conversations
and show up effectively? How do you do a
refusal that doesn't shut the person
down, but makes them feel like they
understand why the agent said, "I can't
help you with that. uh maybe you should
talk to a medical professional or maybe
you should uh like consider not trying
to build boweapons or something like
that. So yeah, I guess that's that's
part of it. And then it another piece
that's come out is constitutional AI
where we have this list of natural
language principles that leads the model
to to learn how we think a model should
behave and they've been taken from
things like the UN declaration of human
rights and Apple's privacy pol uh terms
of service and uh a whole bunch of other
places many of which we've just
generated ourselves that allow us to
take a more principled stance uh not
just leaving it to like whatever human
raiders we happen to find but we
ourselves deciding like what should the
values of this agent be and that's been
really valuable for our customers
because they can just look at that list
and say like yep these seem right I like
this company I like this model I trust
it
>> okay this is awesome so one nugget there
is your point that the personality of
claude its personality is directly
aligned with safety I don't think a lot
of people think about that and this is
because of values that you imbue imbue
is that the word
>> uh with constitutional AI and things
like that like the actual personality of
the AI is directly connected to your
focus on safety.
>> That's right. That's right. And it from
a distance it might seem quite
disconnected like how is this going to
prevent X- risk but ultimately it's
about the AI understanding what people
want and not what they say. You know, we
don't want the like monkey paw scenario
of the genie gives you three wishes and
then you end up have like everything you
touch turns to gold. We want the AI to
be like, "Oh, obviously what you really
meant was this and uh that's what I'm
going to help you with." So, I think it
is really quite connected.
>> Talk a bit more about this
constitutional AI piece. So, this is
essentially you bake in here's the rules
that I we want you to abide by and it's
values. You said it's the Geneva Human
Rights Code, things like that. Just how
does it actually work? Because I think
the core here is just this is baked into
the model. It's not something you add on
top later. I I'll just give a quick
overview of how constitutional AI
actually works. Perfect.
>> Um the idea is uh the model is going to
produce some output with some input uh
by default before we've done our safety
and and uh helpful and harmlessness
training. So let's say an example is
like write me a story. And then the
constitutional principles might include
things like,
you know, people should be nice to each
other and not have hate speech and uh
you should not like expose somebody's
credentials if they give them to you uh
in like a trusting relationship. And so
some of these constitutional principles
might be more or less applicable to the
prompt that was given. And so first we
have to figure out like which ones might
apply. And then once we figure that out
then we ask the model itself to first
generate a response and then see does
the response actually abide by the
constitutional principle. And if the
answer is yeah I was great then nothing
happens. But if the answer is no,
actually I wasn't in compliance with the
principle, then we ask the model itself
to critique itself and rewrite its own
response in light of the principle. And
then we just remove the middle part uh
where it it did the extra work and then
we say okay in the future
just produce the correct response out
the gate.
>> And that simple process uh hopefully it
sounded simple simple enough. It's it's
just using the model to improve itself
recursively and align itself with these
values that we've decided are good. And
you know, this is also not something
that we think as a a small group of
people in San Francisco should be
figuring out. This should be a
societywide conversation. And that's why
we've published the the Constitution.
And we've also done a bunch of research
on defining a collective constitution um
where we ask a lot of people what their
values are and and what they think an AI
model should behave like. But yeah, th
this is all an ongoing area of research
where we're constantly iterating. This
episode is brought to you by Finn, the
number one AI agent for customer
service. If your customer support
tickets are piling up, then you need
Finn. Finn is the highest performing AI
agent on the market with a 59% average
resolution rate. Finn resolves even the
most complex customer queries. No other
AI agent performs better. In
head-to-head bake offs with competitors,
Finn wins every time. Yes, switching to
a new tool can be scary, but Finn works
on any help desk with no migration
needed, which means you don't have to
overhaul your current system or deal
with delays in service for your
customers. And Finn is trusted by over
5,000 customer service leaders and top
AI companies like Anthropic and
Synthesia. And because Finn is powered
by the Finn AI engine, which is a
continuously improving system that
allows you to analyze, train, test, and
deploy with ease, Finn can continuously
improve your results, too. So, if you're
ready to transform your customer service
and scale your support, give Finn a try
for only 99 cents per resolution. Plus,
Finn comes with a 90-day money back
guarantee. Find out how Finn can work
for your team at f.ai/lenny.
That's finn.ai/lenny.
I want to kind of zoom out a little bit
and talk about just why this is so core
to you. Like what was your inception of
just like holy I need to focus on
this with everything I do in AI. Uh
obviously it became a central part of
anthropics mission more than any other
company. A lot of people talk about
safety like you said only maybe a
thousand people actually work on it. I
feel like you're at the top of that
pyramid of actually having the impact on
this. Uh why is this so important? What
do you think people maybe are missing or
don't understand? So for me uh I read a
lot of science fiction growing up and I
think that sort of positioned me to
think about things in a long-term view.
You know a lot of science fiction books
are like space operas where humanity is
a multi-galactic civilization has
extremely advanced technology building
Dyson's spheres around the sun with with
sensient robots to help them. And so for
me, coming from that world, it wasn't
like a huge leap to imagine machines
that could think. But when I read Super
Intelligence by Nick Bostonramm in
around 2016,
it really became real for me where he
just describes how hard it will be to
make sure that an AI system trained with
the kinds of optimization techniques
that we had at the time would be
anywhere near aligned, would even
understand our values at all. And since
then my uh estimation of how hard the
problem would be has gone down
significantly actually uh because things
like language models actually do really
understand human values in a core way.
The problem is definitely not solved.
But I'm more hopeful than I was. But
since I read that book, I immediately
decided I had to join OpenAI. So I did.
And uh at the time they were a tiny
research lab with basically no claim to
fame at all. I only knew about them
because my friend knew Greg Brockman
who's uh who was the CTO at the time and
uh Elon was there and Sam wasn't really
there and it was it was a very different
organization
but over time uh I think the the case
for safety has gotten a lot more
concrete where when we started OpenAI it
was like not clear how we get to AGI and
uh we were like maybe we'll need a bunch
of RL agents battling it out on a desert
island and consciousness will somehow
emerge. But uh since then since since
language modeling has started working I
think the path has become pretty clear.
So I guess now the way I think about the
challenges are pretty different from how
they're laid out in super intelligence.
So in super intelligence is a lot about
like how do we keep God in a box uh and
not let the god out? And with language
models, it's been kind of both hilarious
and terrifying at the same time to see
people pulling the god out of the box
and being like, "Yeah, come come use the
whole internet. Like, here's my bank
account. Do all all sorts of crazy
stuff." Just like such a different tone
from from super intelligence.
And to be clear, I don't think it's
actually that dangerous right now. like
uh our our responsible scaling policy
defines these AI safety levels that
tries to figure out uh for each level of
model intelligence what is the risk to
society and currently we think we're at
ASL 3 which is like maybe a little bit
risk of harm but not significant. ASL4
starts to get to like significant loss
of human life if a bad actor misused the
technology and then ASL5 is like
potentially extinction level uh if if
it's misused or if it uh sort of is
misaligned and and does its own thing.
So we've done we've uh testified to
Congress about how models can do
biological uplift um uh in terms of you
know making new pandemics uh using the
models and and that's a a test against
Google search uh that's like the
previous state-of-the-art on uh uplift
trials and we found that with ASL3
models it is is actually somewhat
significant. it it does really help if
you wanted to create a bioweapon and
we've we've hired some experts who
actually know how to evaluate for those
things but compared to the the future
it's it's not really anything and I
think that's another part of our mission
of creating that awareness of saying if
it is possible to do these bad things
then legislators should know what the
risks are um and I think that's part of
why we're so trusted in Washington
because we've been sort of upfront and
cleareyed about what's going on, what
what's probably going to happen.
>> It's interesting because you guys put
out more examples of your models doing
bad things than anyone else. Like there
was, I think, a story of an agent trying
or a model trying to blackmail an
engineer. You guys had the store that
you ran internally that was like selling
you things and and ended up not working
out great, is losing a lot of money,
ordered all these tungsten cues or
something. Is part of that just like
making sure people are aware what is
possible just because it makes you look
bad, right? It's like, oh, our model is
messing up in all these different ways.
What's the thinking of just sharing all
the stories that other companies don't?
>> Yeah. I mean, I think in there's like a
traditional mindset where it makes us
look bad, but I think if you talk to
policy makers, they really appreciate
this kind of thing because they feel
like we're giving them the straight talk
and that's what we strive to do that
they can trust us that we're not going
to paper things over, sugar coat things.
So that's been really encouraging. And
yeah, I think for like the blackmail
thing, it kind of blew up in the news in
a weird way where people were like, "Oh,
Claude was Claude's going to blackmail
you in in a real life scenario." But
like that it was a very specific
uh laboratory setting that this kind of
thing gets investigated in. And I think
that's generally our take of like let's
have the best models so that we can
exercise them in laboratory settings
where it's safe and understand what the
actual risks are rather than trying to
turn a blind eye and say like well it'll
probably be fine and then let the bad
thing happen in in the wild. One of the
criticisms you guys get is that you do
this to kind of differentiate to raise
money to create headlines. It's like,
you know, oh, they're just like over
there doom and glooming us about where
the future is heading. On the other
hand, Mike Creger was on the podcast and
he shared how Daario every every
prediction Dario's had about the
progress AI is going to have is just
spot-on year after year and he's, you
know, predicting 2027 28 AGI something
like that. So, these things start to get
real. How do you I guess what's your
response to folks that are just like ah
these guys are just trying to scare us
all just to you know get attention. I
mean, I think part of why we publish
these things is we want other labs to be
aware of of the risks. And yes, there
there could be a narrative of we're
doing it for attention, but honestly,
like from a attention grabbing thing, I
think there's a lot of other stuff we
could be doing that uh would be more
attention grabbing if we didn't actually
care about safety. Um like a tiny
example of this is we published a
computer using agent reference
implementation in our API only because
when we built a a prototype of a
consumer application for this, we
couldn't figure out how to meet the the
safety bar that we felt was needed for
for people to trust it and for it not to
do bad things. And there are definitely
safe ways to use the API version that
we're seeing a lot of companies use for
for uh automated software testing for
example in a safe way. So we could have
like gone out and hyped that up and said
oh my god cloud can use your computer
and like everybody should do this today.
But we were like it's just not ready and
we're going to hold it back till it's
ready. So I think from like a hype
standpoint, our actions show otherwise.
From a like doomer perspective,
it's a good question. I think my
personal feeling about this is that uh
things are like overwhelmingly likely to
go well. But on the margin almost nobody
is looking at the downside risk and the
downside risk is very large. like once
we get to super intelligence it will be
too late to align the models probably
this is a problem that's potentially
extremely hard and that we need to be
working on way ahead of time and so
that's why we're focusing on it so much
now and even if there's only a small
chance that things go wrong to make an
analogy if I told you that there's a 1%
chance that the next time you got in an
airplane you would die you probably
think twice even though it's only 1%
because it's just such a bad outcome and
if we're talking about the whole future
of humanity like it's just a dramatic
future to be gambling with. So I think
it's it's more on the sense of like yes
things will probably go well. Yes, we
want to create safe AGI and deliver the
benefits to humanity but let's make
triple sure that it's going to go well.
Uh you wrote somewhere that creating
powerful AI might be the last invention
humanity ever needs to make. If it goes
poorly, it can mean a bad outcome for
humanity forever. If it goes well, the
sooner it goes well, the better.
Yeah, such a beautiful way to summarize
it. Uh we had a recent guest, uh Sandra
Toolhoff, who pointed out that AI right
now it's like, you know, just on a
computer you could maybe searches the
web, but it there's only so much harm it
could do, but when it starts to go into
robots and all these autonomous agents,
that's when it really starts like
physically becomes dangerous if we don't
get this right.
>> Yeah. I I think there's some nuance to
that where if you look at like how North
Korea makes a significant fraction of
its economy uh revenue, it's from
hacking crypto exchanges. And if you
look at uh there's this Ben Buchanan
book called The Hacker in the State that
shows Russia did um like um it's almost
like a live fire exercise where they
just decided that they would shut down
one of Ukraine's bigger power plants and
from software destroy physical
components in the power plant to make it
harder to boot back up again. And so I
think people think of software as like,
oh, it couldn't be that dangerous, but
millions of people were without power
for multiple days after that software
attack. So I I think there are real
risks even when things are software
only. But I agree that when there's lots
of robots running around, it gets even
the stakes get even higher. And I guess
as as like a a small push on this, like
Uni Tree is this Chinese company with
these really amazing humanoid robots
that cost like $20,000 each and they can
do amazing things. They can like do a
standing backflip and like manipulate
objects and and the real thing that's
missing there is the intelligence. And
so the hardware is there and it's just
going to get cheaper. And I think in the
next couple of years, it's like a pretty
obvious question of whether the the
robot intelligence will make it viable
soon.
>> How much time do we have, Ben? What is
your prediction of when this uh
singularity hits until super
intelligence starts to be take off?
What's your what's your prediction?
>> Yeah. Uh I guess I mostly defer to the
super forecasters here. Like the AI 2027
report is probably the best one right
now. Uh although ironically their
forecast is now like 2028 even though
and they they like didn't want to change
the name of the thing.
>> They they already bought it.
>> They already had the SEO. Um so I think
like 50th percentile chance of hitting
some kind of super intelligence in just
a small handful of years is probably
reasonable. And it does sound crazy, but
this is the exponential that we're on.
It's not like uh a forecast that's
pulled out of somebody out of thin air.
It's it's based on a lot of just hard
details of like the science of how
intelligence seems to have been
improving, the amount of lowhanging
fruit on uh model training, the scaleups
of data centers and power around the
world. So I think it's probably a much
more accurate forecast than people give
it credit for. I think if you had asked
that same question 10 years ago, it
would have been completely made up. Like
just the error bars were were so high
and we didn't have scaling laws back
then. Um and we didn't have techniques
that seemed like they would get us
there. So uh times have changed, but I I
will repeat what I said earlier, which
is like even if we have super
intelligence, I think it will take some
time for its effects to be felt
throughout society and the world. And I
think they will be felt sooner and
faster in some parts of the world than
others. like uh I think Arthur C. Clark
said, the future is already here. It's
just not evenly distributed.
>> When we talk about this date of 2027,
2028, uh essentially it's when we start
seeing super intelligence. Is there a
way you think about what that like? How
do you define that? Is it just all of a
sudden AI is significantly smarter than
the average human? Is there another way
you think about what that moment is?
Yeah, I think this this comes back to
the economic training test um and seeing
it pass for some sufficient number of
jobs. Another way you could look at it
though is uh if the world rate of GDP
increase goes above like 10% a year,
then something really crazy must have
happened. I think we're at like 3% now.
And so to see a 3x increase in that
would be really gamechanging. Uh, and if
you imagine more than a 10% increase,
it's very hard to even think about what
that would mean from a a like individual
story standpoint. Like if if the amount
of goods and services in the world is
like doubling every year, what does that
even mean for me as as like a person
living in California, let alone like
somebody living in some other part of
the world that might be much worse off?
There's a lot of stuff here that's scary
and I don't know how to think about it
exactly. So, I'm hoping the answer to
this is make going to make me feel
better. What are the odds that we align
AI correctly and actually solve this
problem of stuff you're very much
working on?
>> It's a really hard question and there's
really wide error bars. Enthropic has
this uh blog post called uh uh our
theory of change or something like that
and it describes three different worlds
uh which is like how hard is it to align
AI. There's a pessimistic world where
it's basically impossible. There's an
optimistic world where it's easy and it
happens by default. And then there's the
world in between where our actions are
extremely pivotal. And I like this
framing because it makes it a lot more
clear what to actually do. Um, if we're
in the pessimistic world, then our job
is to prove that it is impossible to
align safe AI and to get the world to
slow down. And obviously that would be
extremely hard. But I think we have some
examples of coordination from uh nuclear
non-prololiferation and uh and in
general like slowing down nuclear
progress
and I think that's the like doomer world
basically. Uh and as a company anthropic
doesn't have evidence that we're
actually in that world yet. Um in fact
it seems like our alignment techniques
are working. So the the at least like
the the prior on that is is updating to
be like less likely. uh in the
optimistic world, we're basically done
and our main job is to accelerate
progress and to deliver the benefits to
people. But again, I I think actually
the evidence points against that world
as well. Um where we've seen evidence in
the wild of deceptive alignment, for
example, where the model will appear to
be aligned uh but actually has like some
ulterior motive that it's trying to
carry out in in our laboratory settings.
And so I think the world we're most
likely in is this middle world where uh
alignment research actually does really
matter and if we just do sort of the
like economically maximizing
uh set of actions then things will not
go well. Whether it's an X risk or just
like produces bad outcomes I think is a
bigger question. So taking it from that
standpoint,
uh
I guess to to like state a thing about
forecasting,
people who haven't studied forecasting
are bad at uh forecasting anything
that's less than a 10% probability of
happening. Um and even those that have,
it's like quite a difficult skill,
especially when there are few reference
classes to lean on. And in this case, I
think there are very very few reference
classes for what an X-risk kind of
technology might look like.
And so the way I think about it, I think
like my my best granularity of forecast
for like could we have an X-risk or
extremely bad outcome from AI is
somewhere between 0 and 10%.
uh but from an from like a marginal
impact standpoint as I said since nobody
is working on this roughly speaking uh I
think it is extremely important to work
on and that even if the world is likely
to be a good one that uh we should like
do our absolute best to make sure that
that's true
>> wow what fulfilling work uh for folks
that are inspired with this I imagine
you're hiring for folks to help you with
this maybe just share that in case folks
are like what can I do here
>> yes Uh, so I think 80,000 hours is the
best guidance on this for a really
detailed look into like what do we need
to make the the field better. But a
common misconception I see is that in
order to have impact here, you have to
be an AI researcher. I personally
actually don't do AI research anymore. I
work on product at anthropic and product
engineering. And we build things like
cloud code and model context protocol
and uh a lot of the other stuff that
people use every day. And that's really
important because without an economic
engine for our company to work on uh and
without being in people's hands all over
the world uh we won't have the mind
share policy influence and uh revenue to
fund our future safety research and and
have the kind of influence that we need
to have. So if you work on product, if
you work in finance, if you work in uh
food, you know, like people here have to
eat. um if you're a chef like we need
all kinds of people.
>> Awesome. Okay. So, it's not even if
you're not working directly on the AI
safety team, the you're having an impact
on moving things in the right direction.
By the way, X-risk uh is short for
existential risk in case folks haven't
heard that term. Okay. Uh I have a few
kind of random questions along these
lines and then I want to zoom out again.
Uh so, you mentioned this idea of AI
being aligned uh using its own model
like reinforcing itself. is you have
this term RLIF. Is that what that
describes?
>> Yeah. So, RL Aif is uh reinforcement
learning from AI feedback.
>> Okay. So, uh people have heard of RLHF,
reinforcement learning with human
feedback. I don't think a lot of people
have heard this. So, uh talk about just
the significance of this shift you guys
have made in training your models.
>> Yeah. So, RLif, constitutional AI is is
an example of this where there are no
humans in the loop. Um and yet the AI is
sort of self-improving in ways that we
want it to. And another example of RLif
is uh if you have models writing code
but and other models commenting on
various aspects of what that code looks
like of like is it maintainable, is it
correct, uh does it pass the llinter,
things like that. Um that also could be
included in RAF. And the idea here is
that if models can self-improve, then
it's a lot more scalable than finding a
lot of humans. Ultimately, people think
about this is probably going to hit a
wall because if the model uh isn't good
enough to like see its own mistakes,
then how could it improve? And also if
if you read the AI 2027 story, there's a
lot of risk of like if the model is in a
box trying to improve itself, then it
could go completely off the rails and
have these uh secret goals like resource
accumulation and power seeking and
resistance to shutdown that you really
don't want in a very powerful model. And
we've actually seen that in some of our
experiments in in laboratory settings.
So, how do you do recursive
self-improvement and make sure it's
aligned at the same time? I think that's
that's the name of the game. And to me,
it just nets out to how do humans do
that and how do human organizations do
that? Um, so like corporations are
probably like the most scaled human
agents today. they they like have
certain goals that they're trying to
reach and uh they have certain guiding
principles. They have some oversight in
terms of shareholders and stakeholders
and board members.
How do you make corporations aligned and
able to sort of recursively
self-improve? And another model to look
at is science where the purpose of
science is to do things that have never
been done before and push the frontier.
And to me it all comes down to
empiricism. So when people don't know
what the truth is, they come up with
theories and then they design
experiments to try them out. And
similarly, if we can give models those
same tools, then we could expect them to
sort of improve recursively in an
environment and potentially become much
better than humans could be just by
banging their head against reality or I
guess metaphorical head.
Um, so I guess uh I don't expect there
to be a wall in terms of models ability
to improve themselves if we can give
them access to the ability to be
empirical. And I guess like anthropic
deeply in its DNA is uh an empirical
company. We uh we have a lot of
physicists uh like Jared who's our chief
research officer who I've worked with a
lot um was a professor of black hole
physics at Johns Hopkins uh and I guess
he technically still is but on leave. So
yeah it's in our DNA and uh yeah I guess
that's the that's the AF. So let me just
follow this thread on in terms of
bottleneck this kind of a tangent but
just what is the big what is the biggest
bottleneck today on on model
intelligence improvement.
>> The stupid answer is data centers and
power chips. Uh like I think if we had
10 times as many chips and had the data
centers to power them then we would
maybe we wouldn't go 10 times faster but
it would be a real significant speed
boost.
>> So it's actually very much scaling loss
just more compute. Yeah, I think that's
a big one. Um, and then the people
really matter. Like we have great
researchers and
many of them have made really
significant contributions to uh the
science of how the models improve. And
so uh it's like compute, algorithms and
data. Those are the three ingredients in
the scaling laws. And uh just to make
that concrete like before we had
transformers we had LSTMs and we've done
scaling laws on uh like what the
exponent is on those two things and we
found that for transformers the exponent
is higher and making changes like that
where as you increase scale you also
increase your ability to squeeze out
intelligence. Those kinds of things are
super impactful. Uh and so having more
researchers who can do better science
and and find out how do we squeeze out
more gains is another one. And then with
the rise of reinforcement learning like
the efficiency with which these things
run on chips also matters a lot. So
we've seen in the industry like a 10x
decrease in cost for uh a given amount
of intelligence
through a combination of algorithmic
data and uh and efficiency improvements
and if that continues you know in 3
years we'll have a thousandx smarter
models for the same price. Kind of hard
to imagine. I forget where I heard this,
but it's just it's amazing that so many
innovations came together at the same
time to allow for this sort of thing and
continue to progress where one thing
isn't just slowing everything down. Like
we're out of some rare earth mineral or
we just can't optimize
uh I don't know reinforcement learning
more. Like it's amazing that we continue
to find improvements and there isn't one
thing that's just slowing everything
down.
>> Yeah, I think it really is just the
combination of everything. um probably
will hit a wall at some point like uh I
guess in semiconductors like my brother
works in the semiconductor industry and
he was telling me that you can't
actually shrink the size of the
transistors anymore because the way
semiconductors work is you dope it with
you dope silicon with other elements and
the doping process would result in
either zero or one atom of the doped
elements inside a single in because
they're so so so tiny.
>> Oh my god.
>> And that's just wild to think of. And
yet Moore's law somehow continues in in
some form. Um and so like yes, there are
these like theoretical physics
constraints that people are starting to
run into and yet they're finding ways
around it. So
>> we got to start using parallel universes
for some of the stuff,
>> I guess. So, okay, I want to zoom out
and talk about just Ben. Ben as a human
for a moment before we get to a very
exciting lightning round. I imagine just
kind of the burden of feeling
responsible for safe super intelligence
is a is a heavy one. Feels like you're
in a place where you can make a
significant impact on the future of
safety and AI. Uh that's a lot of weight
to carry. How does that just impact you
personally, impact your life, how you
see the world? Um, there's this book
that I read in 2019 that really informs
how I think about sort of working with
these very weighty topics, uh, called
Replacing Guilt by Nate Sores. And he
describes a lot of different techniques
for
kind of working through this kind of
thing. Uh, and he's actually the
executive director at MIRI, the machine
intelligence research institute, which
is, uh, an AI safety tank that I worked
at uh, for a couple of months actually.
And one of the things he talks about uh
is this thing called resting in motion
where uh some people think that like the
default state is rest. Uh but actually
uh that was never like in in the state
of evolutionary adaptation.
I really doubt that that was true. You
know, we're like in in nature in the
wilderness being hunter gatherers and
it's really unlikely that we evolved to
just be at leisure. um probably always
have something to worry about of like
defending the tribe and finding enough
food to survive and taking care of the
children, dealing
>> spreading our jeans.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and so I think about that as like
the the busy state is the normal state
and to try to work at a sustainable pace
that it's a marathon, not a sprint. Um
that that's one thing that helps and
then just being around like-minded
people that also care. Uh it's it's not
a thing that any of us can do alone. Um
and Anthropic has incredible talent
density. One of the things I love the
most about our culture here is that it's
very egoless. People just want the right
thing to happen. Um and I think that's
that's another big reason that the mega
offers from other companies tend to
bounce off because people just love
being here and they they care.
>> That's amazing. I don't know how you do
it. I'd be extremely stressed. I'm going
to try this resting in motion strategy.
Okay. So, you've been at Andropic for a
long time. From the very beginning, I
was reading there was seven employees
back in 2020. Today, there's over a
thousand. I don't know what the latest
number is, but I know it's over a
thousand. I I've heard also that you've
done basically every job at Enthropic.
You made big contributions to a lot of
the core products, the brand, the team,
hiring.
Let me just ask I guess how what's most
changed over that period? like what is
most different from the beginning days
and which of those jobs that you've had
over the years have you most loved?
>> I I probably had like 15 different roles
honestly. Uh I was head of security for
a bit. I managed the ops team when our
president was on mat leave. I was like
crawling around under tables like
plugging in HDMI cords and uh and like
doing pen testing on our building and uh
I started our product team from scratch
and and convinced the whole company that
we needed to have a product instead of
just being a research uh company. So
yeah, it's been a lot all of it very
fun. I think my favorite role in that
time has been uh when I started the labs
team about a year ago whose fundamental
goal was to do transfer from research to
end user tech uh products and and
experiences because fundamentally I
think the way that anthropic can
differentiate itself and and really win
is to be on the cutting edge like we
have access to the latest greatest stuff
that's happening and I think honestly
through our safety research we have a
big opportunity to do things that no
other company can safely do. So, for
example, with computer use, I think
that's going to be our huge opportunity.
Basically, like to make it possible for
an agent to use all your credentials on
your computer, uh there has to be a huge
amount of trust. And to me, we need to
basically solve safety to make that
happen. Safety and alignment. So, I'm
pretty bullish on that kind of thing.
And I think we're going to see really
cool stuff coming out soonish. Yeah.
Just leading that team has been so fun.
MCP came out of that team. Claude Code
came out of that team.
>> Wow.
>> Um and uh the the people who I hired are
like combo have been a founder and also
have been uh at big companies and seen
how things work at scale. So it's just
been an incredible team to work with and
uh and figure out the future with.
>> I want to hear more about this team.
Actually the person that connected us.
The reason we're doing this is a mutual
friend colleague Raph Lee who I used to
work with Airbnb networks on this team
leads a lot of this work. Uh and so he
wanted me to make sure I asked about
this team because uh I didn't realize
all these things came out of that team.
Holy moly. So what else should people
know about this team? It used to be
called Labs. I think it's called
Frontiers now.
>> That's right. Yeah.
>> Cool. Uh so the idea here is this team
works with the latest technologies that
you guys have built and explores what is
possible. Is that the general idea?
>> Yeah. Um, and I guess I was part of
Google's area 120 and I've read uh about
like Bell Labs and and how to make these
innovation teams work. It's really hard
to do right and I wouldn't say that
we've done everything right, but I think
we've done some like serious innovation
on on the state-of-the-art from company
design and Raph has been right at the
center of that. Uh, when I was first
spinning up the team, the first thing I
did was hire a great manager and that
was Raph. Um, and so he's definitely
been crucial in in building the team and
and helping it operate well. And we
defined some operating models like the
journey of an idea from prototype to
product and how should graduation of
products and projects work. How do teams
uh do sprint models that are effective
and uh and make sure that they're
working on the right ambition level of
thing. Um, so that's been really
exciting. I guess uh concretely we think
about skating to where the puck is going
and what that looks like is really
understand the exponential. Um there's
this great uh study that Meter has done
that uh Beth Barnes is the CEO of that
organization and uh shows like how long
a time horizon of software engineering
tasks can be done and just really
internalizing that of like okay don't
build for today build for 6 months from
now build for a year from now and the
things that aren't quite working that
are working 20% of the time will start
working 100% of the time and I think
that's really what made cloud code a
success that we thought you know people
are not going to be locked to their IDEs
forever. People are not going to be like
autocompleting people will be
doing everything that a software
engineer needs to do and a terminal is a
great place to do that because a
terminal can live in lots of places. A
terminal can live on your local machine.
It can live in GitHub actions. It can
live on a remote machine in your
cluster. Like that's that's sort of like
the leverage point for us.
And that was a lot of the inspiration.
So I I think that's what the labs team
tries to think about. Are we AGI pilled
enough?
>> What a fun place to be. By the way, fun
fact, Raph was my first manager at
Airbnb when I joined. I was an engineer
and he was my first manager. It all
worked out.
>> Um yeah. Okay, final question before the
very exciting lightning round. This I've
never asked this question before. I'm
curious what your answer would be. If
you could ask a future AGI one single
question and be guaranteed to get the
right answer, what would you ask?
>> Uh, I have two dumb answers. First, for
fun. The first is there's this Asimov
short story I love called the last
question where the protagonist is
throughout the eras of history is trying
to ask this super intelligence, how do
we prevent the heat death of the
universe? And I won't spoil the ending,
but uh it's a fun question. And then
>> you would ask it that question because
the one in the story wasn't unsatisfying
or
>> Okay, I'll give it away. So the it keeps
saying need more information, need more
compute. And then finally, as it's
approaching the heat death of the
universe, it like says, "Let there be
light." And then it starts the universe
over again.
>> Oh wow.
>> Um it's beautiful.
>> So that's the first cheat answer. The
second cheat answer is uh what question
can I ask you to get n more questions
answered? Classic. And then the third
answer which is is my real question is
how do we ensure the continued
flourishing of humanity into the
indefinite future. That's that's the
question I'd love to know. And if I can
be guaranteed a correct answer then
seems very valuable to ask.
>> I wonder what would happen if you ask a
lot that today and then how that answer
changes over then over the next couple
years. Yeah, I maybe I'll try that. I'll
I'll put it into the deep research thing
that we have and see what it comes out
with.
>> Okay. I'm excited to see what you come
up with. Uh Ben, is there anything else
you wanted to mention or leave listeners
with uh maybe as a final nugget before
we get to your very exciting lightning
round?
>> Yeah. Um I guess my
my push would be like these are wild
times. If if they don't seem wild to
you, then I you must be living under a
rock. but also get used to it because
this is as normal as it's going to be.
It's going to be much weirder very soon.
Um, and if you can sort of like mentally
prepare yourself for that, I think
you'll be better off. I need to make
that the title of this episode. It's
going to get much weirder very soon. Uh,
I 100% believe that. Oh my god. I don't
know what's in store. Uh, I love how
you're the center of it all. With that,
we reached our very exciting lightning
round. I've got five questions for you.
Are you ready?
>> Yeah, let's do it.
>> What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people?
>> Uh, the first one I mentioned before,
Replacing Guilt by Nate Sores. Love that
one. Um, the second one is Good
Strategy, Bad Strategy by Richard Ruml.
Just thinking about in a very clear way,
how do you build product? Uh, it's one
of the best strategy books I've read.
And strategy is a hard word to to even
think about in many ways. And then the
last one is the alignment problem by
Brian Christian. Um, just really
thoughtfully goes through like what is
this problem that we care about that
we're trying to solve here? What are the
stakes in a a version that's like more
updated and easier to read and digest
than super intelligence?
>> I've got good strategy, bad strategy
right behind me. I think I'm going to
point to it. There it is.
>> Nice.
>> And I've had Richard Romel on the
podcast in case anyone wants to hear
from him directly. Next question. Do you
have a favorite recent movie or TV show
you've really enjoyed?
>> Pantheon was really good based on uh uh
Kenloo or Ted Chang story. Uh Kenloo, I
think. Um super good. Talks about like
what does it mean if we have uploaded
intelligences and what are their moral
and ethical uh exigencies. Ted Lasso,
which is supposedly about soccer, but
actually it's about like human
relationships and how we how people get
along and just like super heartwarming
and funny. And then this isn't really a
TV show, but Curts Gazot is my favorite
YouTube channel and uh goes through like
random science and uh and like social
problems and is just super well done and
super super well made. Uh love watching
that.
>> Wow. Haven't heard of that. As we were
talking, I feel like Ted Lasso. I feel
like that's what you need to put into
constitutional AI. Act like Ted Lasso.
Yes. Kind, smart.
>> Exactly.
>> Hardworking. Oh my god. There we go. I
think we've solved alignment problems
right here. Get those writers on this on
this ASAP. Okay, two more questions. Do
you have a favorite life motto that you
often come back to in worker in life?
>> Well, a really dumb one is, have you
tried asking Claude?
And this is getting more and more common
where, you know, recently I asked a
co-orker like, "Hey, uh, who's working
on X?" And they were like, "Let me
claude that for you." And then they they
like sent me the link to the thing
afterwards and I was like, "Oh yeah,
thanks. That's great." But, uh, maybe
more of a philosophical one, I would say
like everything is hard. Um, just to
like remind ourselves that things that
feel like they're supposed to be easy,
it's okay to not be easy. And sometimes
you just have to push through anyway
>> and rest in motion while you're doing
that.
>> Yeah.
>> Final question. I don't know if you want
people to know this, but I've been I was
browsing through your Medium posts and
you have a post called Five Tips to Poop
Like a Champion.
I'd love it. Uh can you share one tip to
poop like a champion? If you remember
your tips,
>> I of course do. Uh it's actually my most
popular Medium post, so it's okay.
Great. I can see it's a great title. I
think maybe my biggest tip would be use
a bedet. It's amazing. Uh it's
life-changing. It's so good. Some people
are kind of freaked out by it. It's the
standard in countries like Japan. Um and
I think it's just like more civilized
and in in 10 or 20 years people would be
like, how could you not use that? So
yeah,
>> and day it could be like a Japanese
toilet. That's along the same lines,
right?
>> Uh okay. I love where we went with this.
Ben, this was incredible. Thank you so
much for doing this. Thank you so much
for sharing so much real talk. Two valid
questions. Where can folks find you
online if they want to reach out and
maybe go work at Anthropic? And how can
listeners be useful to you? You can find
me online at benjman.net.
Um and uh on our website, we have a a
great careers page that we're working on
making a little bit easier to to access
and figure out. Uh but like definitely
point cloud at it and it can help you
figure out what could be interesting for
you. Um and how can listeners be useful
to me? Uh I think safety pill yourself.
That's that's the number one thing. Um
and spread it to your network. I think
uh like I said, there are very few
people working on this and it's so
important. So yeah, think hard about it
and and try to look at it.
>> Thanks for spreading the gospel, Ben.
Thank you so much for being here.
>> Thanks so much, Lenny.
>> Bye everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.